well howdy there Internet people its Bo
again so today we're going to talk about
studies statistics how we consume
information and what airplanes and
helmets can teach us about that most
studies and statistics have the same
flaw and the same flaw so we're going to
talk about some historical examples that
illustrate that and we're gonna talk
about some modern ones some studies
you've probably heard there or to the
Navy Commission to study dealing with
their aircraft why it worked was
basically their craft came back it
landed came back from action these guys
ran out and counted the holes in it took
a diagram drew where the holes were they
did this to a whole bunch of planes and
created a composite diagram showing
where most damage occurred they used
that to make a recommendation on where
the Navy should put more armor on the
planes they sent this over to a guy
named Walt who was part of the
statistical research group up at
Columbia he's a mathematician he looked
at it and he's like you're gonna armor
the wrong spots you need to put it where
there's no holes it's where you need to
put the armor why what did he know that
everybody else that looked at it didn't
he paid attention to how they gathered
the information plane comes back and
they count the holes doesn't include the
planes that didn't make it back he took
that and realized that those areas where
there was no damage that meant if the
plane got hit there it was going down so
that's where he recommended they armored
they went with him similar example was
the introduction of the new helmet I
think this was during World War one
doctors started complaining
this helmet isn't worth anything at all
head injuries are way way up the reality
the helmet was really really good all
those new head injury patients well
before they never even would have made
it to the hospital
it was saving lives it was doing its job
both of those have the same flaw the
person analyzing it assumed they had a
complete data set and they did give you
one you've heard more than likely
demographic X commits the most crime
I'll go ahead and tell you now there is
no study literally nod that says that
not somebody right now is going to the
Bureau of Justice Statistics read it
carefully that's not what that study
says says the demographic X is arrested
the most doesn't say who commits the
most somebody certainly believes you can
extrapolate not really not really go
over to the figures on the percentages
of cases that are solved they'll find
out some information that may not let
you sleep well at night
when you're talking about the most
severe crime in the u.s. about 60% are
solved 40% are unsolved but even that
isn't a complete data set because that
only includes incidents where case was
opened what about those people just
disappeared
you can use that statistic to determine
a lot of things it could mean a bunch of
different things it could mean that
maybe it's that well demographic acts is
just really bad at committing crimes and
they get caught more maybe they lack the
economic means to facilitate the
cover-up
maybe they live in urban areas where
it's harder to get rid of the evidence
could mean a lot of things what it
doesn't mean is that they commit the
most it's not there when you're missing
half of your data set
you can't extrapolate give you another
one you'll hear a lot these climate
models I've been hearing about this
since the 70s they're always wrong the
reality is that when these models are
produced scientists don't have a
complete data set they're estimating
years in the future
how much pollution is going to be there
when your gas mileage increases cuts
pollution when a state starts checking
emissions cuts pollution when more mass
transit is used
it cuts pollution all of these things
cut pollution and increase the timeline
when scientists have gone back to these
models and plugged in the actual
information turns out they are
incredibly accurate
statistics and studies are useful then
give you a clearer picture of some
things if you look at enough of them you
can get the big picture but if you only
look at little bits and pieces or you
choose to interpret it however you want
don't really pay attention to the
methodology used and how its collected
well as the old saying goes there are
three kinds of lies anyway it's just a
thought I'll have a good night